# Weather-Predictions-Based-On-Home-IOT-Devices

#### Weather is one of the most useful environmental limitations in our lives at every level. Weather predictions play a vital role in our everyday lives. A good weather monitoring system aids in the remediation of development and any essential preparation in the event of bad weather. Weather forecasting therefore is an important role in meteorology and has long been one of the world's most systematically difficult problems. The aim of this data analytics is to  understand the relationship between energy consumption by appliances and time period, or detect anomalous usage of appliances, or clarify the relationship between weather information and energy generated by solar power.

## Dataset Used
#### The dataset chosen has numerous home IOT devices data which were generated during the year 2016.
#### Source : https://www.kaggle.com/taranvee/smart-home-dataset-with-weather-information
#### By using this dataset, we can understand the relationship between energy consumption by appliances and time period, or detect anomalous usage of appliances, or clarify the relationship between weather information and energy generated by solar power.


## Data Pre Processing
#### After the data exploratory analysis it is important to remove the outliers, non important attributes, filling NaN values and other data engineering techniques to make the data set more robust and perform predictions with higher accuracy.  Therefore most of the weather conditions have been combined into a single feature for better accuracy scores. The dataset was primarily processed to predict 3 main weather conditions those are Clear, Cloudy and Light Rain. This allowed the model to make better predictions as well as perform faster. Moreover the ratings of like devices such as Furnace 1 and Furnace 2 have a similar power consumption rates they can be engineered to a single attribute. And a lot of non important attributes such as the wind bearings and other weather parameters were omitted along with constant power using home devices such as the kitchens, microwave etc. Since most of the weather summary data included clear and the occurrences of cloudy and rainy very minimal compared to it, oversampling was done which resulted in an even distribution of all the conditions.

## Conclusion 
#### Six algorithms were utilised for this model and their performances were measured based on the accuracy score parameters and the training/testing times. After training and testing all the algorithms it was found that the Random Forest Classifier had the best accuracy score and run time with an approx. accuracy of 98.8%. Other classification algorithms such as K-Neighbours and Decision Trees Classifier have also had commendable accuracy scores. Therefore to conclude the work has successfully utilised supervised machine learning algorithms to predict weather conditions based on data generated by home IOT devices.
